So, I wanna ask you a question and
that is, why don't you test?
Who does testing here?
Everybody?
Okay, one person is not
raising their hand.
[LAUGH] Why don't you test?
>> Sometimes just not testable you
have some async personality and Yeah.
>> Well, we don't have time.
We'll build it now and
we'll test it later, which I mean,
I don't agree with that at all.
[LAUGH] I hear that a lot.
>> One thing that I run into
is working with a legacy code
base that there's just a ton of problems.
[LAUGH]
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> So, as much as I'd like
to write tests around it,
figuring out how to do that
can be a real challenge.
>> Yeah, legacy is tricky.
Yes, that's a topic of itself.
So I have this kind of a chart I made,
like why don't people test?
And these are random different excuses.
And I have this green thing on the top
that's like semi-valid excuse, and
we pointed out legacy code base, right?
That's kind of semi-valid, but it's
valid in the sense that it is difficult.
It's not valid in the sense that you don't
have to do it and you shouldn't do it.
You might have a much harder
time writing legacy part, but
it is something that still
you should strive for.
Writing a UI test is also a little tricky,
but
we're actually gonna
talk about that today.
But I wanna go over some
of these other arguments.
One is people say, well,
it dirties the design.
And I'm gonna try to
convince you actually that,
actually no it makes
the design better better.
Right?
Because fundamentally what testing
requires you to do is to assemble
the system in a different way.
Right?
Like if the code base you have can only be
assembled in one particular way which runs
the application, and you come in from a
testing point of view, say, well actually,
I want to assemble it
in the smaller chunks.
That means that actually it's less
coupled because it gives you the freedom
to assemble it, not the whole app,
but a portion of it and
run the portions of it independently.
So that actually makes the testing easier.
Now the reason people say dirty is
designed is because if you have a legacy
code base, it is so intertwined that
trying to get it to a testable state,
you might temporarily have to kind of hack
things, too, in order to make them work.
Mark, did you have a question?
>> Yeah, a couple of people online said
when approaching a legacy codebase,
it's difficult to figure out
where to even start testing.
>> That is very true.
Legacy codebases can be
almost impossible to test.
And what it comes down to is
managing the dependencies.
And we're going to talk
about that sometimes later.
But that's like the knowing
how to test legacy codebase,
that probably is a course on its own.
>> Somebody else said, sometimes I have
a database dependent situation that
also involves specific
date/time variables.
I guess it's difficult.
>> So marking time is important
part of the particular thing.
People will sometimes argue that the
testing doesn't catch bugs, which is kind
of a strange argument for me because
it's kind of the whole point of it, and
especially once you have lived in
a code base that has good tests and
you refactor the code base,
you realize just how invaluable it is and
you realize like, how did we used
to write code before testing?
Like, I remember when I used
to write code before test and
I have no idea how I get anything working.
People argue that it's slower
because you have to do more work.
So it is true that with tests,
you will do more typing,
because you have to write tests, right?
But I actually think it is faster,
especially once if you start a new
project, you write lots of code fast,
but that quickly kind of tapers off,
and you get into kind of
a maintenance mode, right?
And it's in the maintenance
mode where tests really start
to shine because you think you're fixing
a bug so you change something and
unless you have all the previous tests and
all the previous assertions,
your fix might very well be
breaking three other things.
And so the amount of time you save
not regressing is actually huge.
Okay people say it's boring.
I actually think it is fun once
you're doing it the right way.
We'll talk about that more in the future.
People often argue that if
you make a lot of tests,
the codebase becomes hard to change.
And I see what they're coming from.
They're basically saying that the tests
assert the inner working so tightly
that any kind of change to inner workings
would require you to change the test.
There is a little bit of merit in it, but
it all depends on the kind
of test you write.
If you have tested essentially
what I would call a snapshot test,
a test that takes a snapshot of the system
and basically any change to that snapshot
is considered a failure,
those tests are not very useful, right?
And also become very difficult to change.
But if you do it correctly and you have
intentions in your test saying like, hey,
when this is the input of the system,
then I expect this particular output.
And I specifically don't care
what happens in the middle,
it's a particular kind of test,
then in that case,
it becomes easy to change the internals
because the test isn't asserting
about how you're doing things, it is only
caring about the particular outcome.
And so whether or
not your system becomes hard to change,
it really comes down to how
strong you are about these.
Making assertions about
how it does things, right?
If you're gonna micromanage the software
into delivering the output that you want,
then yes, you might get in a situation
where these tests are overly protective of
the changes.
But if you do it as in like, look,
I don't care how you get there,
I just want to make sure
this is the output,
then the test actually become
much easier to deal with.
Writing tests sometimes does mean
that you have to create interfaces.
Now in typescript and
in JavaScript, interfaces are not
really much of a thing because everything
is duck type so it's not a big deal.
In other languages like in Java or
more strongly typed languages.
Interfaces are more of a thing.
But yes, interfaces are a useful way of
allowing you to manage your dependencies.
We're going to talk about that later.
The other one people often talk about is,
hey, testing is for QA.
Like, this is not my job to do
testing as a software developer.
We're going to talk about more
a little later, but I really want to
point out is that testing is actually
very much the job of the developer.
We need to adjust our assumptions about
whose responsibility these things are,
mainly because testing isn't
that much about writing tests,
it's about designing the code-base
in a way so that it is testable.
If you design code in
a way that is untestable,
there's very little that somebody
can do after the fact to add tests.
In other words, if you design
your code in an untestable way,
you've essentially created
a legacy code base.
That's the reason why legacy code bases
are difficult to test, is because, well,
they weren't designed
with testing in mind.
So there's nothing inherently
difficult about testing existing code,
as long as the code is written
in a testable manner, right?
So, in a strange way,
we're gonna be talking today mostly
about what do you need to do
to make the code testable,
not about how do I actually test, right?
So I'm not here to teach you how to test,
even though that's the title of
the session, rather, I'm here to teach you
about how do you structure the code so
the testing becomes easy.
And that's a very different way
of thinking about the problem.
Now, one of my favorite excuse,
which nobody ever says is
they don't know how, right?
That is fundamentally the reason
why people don't test, right?
Because they don't know how.
And it is not obvious that,
hey in order to test I have
to design my code base
in a particular way,
rather than knowing the insides
of how to write tests.
Everybody's always thinking like,
if I just install some special piece of
software or whatever,
my testing will become easier.
And the answer is no.
It's all about designing
the code in a testable way.
And knowing how is a skill
like any other skill.
Now what I find interesting about this
is that you can come to a developer and
you say, Hey do you know Rust?
And they'll say no I don't or whatever.
And they won't feel any hesitation saying
that they don't know how to do this
particular thing.
But if you come to a developer and
say do you know how to test?
Even if they don't, they feel bad about
saying that they don't know how and
they will essentially lie and be like,
Of course I know how to test.
I find this really interesting that
somehow a skill of testing is not the same
thing as a skill of a particular language,
which is perfectly fine to
admit that you don't know.
And I think we should get better at it.
We should be able to freely admit saying,
look, I'm just not an expert at this
particular thing and
I wanna learn more on how to do this.